Some of the Burroughs archives.
Okay, Bob Jackson.
And this is the Naked Lunch manuscript.
That's pretty good.
When did you start acquiring Burroughs?
Through Brad Murrow, about 10 years ago.
I mean, was it largely because it was available?
It just struck me.
I mean, I don't collect beat generation, although it's my era.
And these are the Paul Bowles letters that are unpublished.
All this is unpublished.
This is the important archive.
This is only part of it.
It's a half a ton of material.
A half a ton, literally?
Upstairs.
Wow.
This is for an exhibition, but all this is...
Is it good substantive stuff?
Ted Morgan and I have said there are three books here.
Viking Press has written to me.
They did a first book on letters by Burroughs, and they want to do a second book, but they can't do it because I have all the material, and I haven't let them publish it because I want to sell it to an institution.
And then they can do it.
But once I publish it myself, then this is in value.
This is tremendously.
So when Ted Morgan was here, he said that there's at least three books, maybe four out of what I have.
Really?
That was his judgment.
Did Ted come to see this stuff?
Oh, yeah.
What was he working on?
Well, here.
This is the book he wrote.
My publisher.
He had the same house here.
I wonder who his editor was in this.
I don't know.
He's really moved around from house to house.
Yeah, I have a number of books here.
Putnam and Mara.
My mom is, is this in 1988?
Yes, and that's, and then he did mention me in here, but I wasn't.
Yeah.
Just I think I really wish he had it, but.
The dealer put ASU in touch of the cover.
How did Ted find out about you?
He just found it.
Well, through Brad Morrow and through Burrell's program, I had this material.
And this is the famous.
It was sold by Burroughs and Geisen to this Lichtenstein Swiss banker who sold it.
He kept it for 15 years and he sold it to me.
It was a lot of intrigue and money transferring.
I had to go to Paris and Morrow went to Lichtenstein.
And while there, there's a sequel to the book Junkie called Queer.
I know that book.
What?
Well, no one had ever seen it before.
I mean, I know of it.
I've not read it.
I know of manuscripts.
And what happened was that they, Greerholz, who was the secretary.
Who was it?
Jim Greerholz, I see.
Took the manuscript, this is the manuscript, from 1950s, and copied it.
And when I found about it, I threatened to sue him, and I said, you can't publish the book.
Because you're the owner of it.
I'm the owner of it.
So what happened is that they said, well, we'll dedicate the book to you.
And I said, no, I don't want the book.
They're dedicated to me.
So what they did do was to get the book.
That's pretty interesting.
Well, there's been a big crack about that.
And I was sort of going to sue them because they stole the material.
And you had the full title to it?
I found out about it accidentally.
So I then took, I said to them I was going to sue them for...
what they did.
And then he said, okay, we will, you will dedicate the book to you.
I said, no, I won't, except I can't have queer dedications.
Of course not.
But I want all the material and the brown prints and the correspondence.
And then they said, well, we'll do this.
So they, with grateful acknowledgement of the kind collaboration of Robert H. Jackson and for his aid in the production of this book.
So I did do it because- And what year is the publication of this?
1985.
So it's time passes, doesn't it, huh?
Yeah, right.
I remember when that came on.
So I'm responsible for this book, but then... Could you stop publication if you wanted to?
You know, it was not a question in my mind, because first of all, being a lawyer, and then what happened, so Vauerholtz, you know, I was angry, but I didn't want the money.
I wasn't interested in the money.
It was just the whole concept of it.
So there was a book published a few years later.
Talk about me in here.
Are you on the index?
No, no, he wouldn't mention it.
Whose book is this?
This is a set of Interzone, that's what it's called.
Yeah.
But he talked about me here, and I was furious.
James, G-R-A-U-E-R-H-O-L-Z.
And what is he, one of the scholars of... He was a secretary.
Oh, I see.
And all that stuff.
Don't you think he'd call me difficult?
He said it was a private collector.
Difficult?
Right.
He said,
What should be here?
Somewhere there's a... There's a reference to... There's a reference to me.
To a difficult collector, right?
A difficult collector.
And this is in Interzone.
Interzone.
I mean, you get a bookmark in there for next time, so you should... But anyway, but so, you know, I have a lot of... So finally I let him do it.
But...
You know, there's a lot of history, and then ever since that, Graerholtz won't talk to me, and I've been ambivalent about talking to him.
Meantime, Spurro's the one who suffered through this.
How did you find out that they were about to publish this thing?
Marl was telling me in a side conversation, Graerholtz said something to me on the telephone, because they wanted to publish all this material, this wealth of material.
And I said, well, I'm not sure I want to publish it,
He looked to me by and said, well, we're doing queer now.
I said, what do you mean you're doing queer?
I said, you have no rights to do it.
He said, well, how did you do it?
He said, well, Brent Merle told me that he borrowed the manuscript and Liechtenstein made it.
And did you contact the publisher?
No, I didn't have to.
That's all you'd have to do.
They were afraid of me.
I mean, they knew there was a lot of help.
I would exercise my right.
You know, they would do a very dumb thing.
Yeah, but a publisher will back off in five seconds.
Sure.
And in this case, I mean, I had gross sales.
All they needed is a hint.
Right.
And that deal was scorched.
Instantly.
Yeah.
So it was okay.
I mean, I got my comeuppance, you know.
They had to satisfy you.
Yeah, right.
And what was satisfaction for you?
I got an acknowledgment, which wasn't important, but they gave me all the manuscript material and all the publications, so I have an example of a book that was famous for its never being published, and so I have this manuscript and the brown prints and the correspondence, and they gave me everything, and that was my painting.
Which is nice, which as a collector is wonderful.
Didn't meant to start out that way.
Yeah.
Well, that's pretty good.
I was happy.
Yeah, that's cool.
Anyway.
Well, see, it's interesting.
You have a lot of different things.
And you probably never thought you'd collect manuscripts, right?
No, but I'm probably, in one way, somewhat very active manuscript collector.
But not focused on it.
I just can buy what I enjoy.
You can carry it.
I am getting tired, I have to confess, I'm losing my focus here.
Let's start again.
We're in now, this is this guy's, this is an interzone, borrows his book, and this former secretary, his name is?
Still the secretary.
James Brouwer-Holtz.
Okay, and he, and he, what page on the introduction are you on?
Page 14.
Okay.
World papers have had a harrowing voyage to the hands of today's scholars.
What is from a period mostly comp friend, mostly at least research center of the University of Texas, the author's own collection, is jumbled and incomplete.
Many other manuscripts remain in uncooperative, private hands at this rate.
And he won't play ball according to this guy's rules.
Right, right.
So he's got his dig in.
Come on in.